---
layout: post
title:  Beliefs About Beliefs Do Not Equal Truth
date:   2014-05-23
category: beliefs
permalink: beliefs.html
---
Fascinating [overview about beliefs][beliefs]. The article itself is practices the deception it is writing about.

For example, the CDC is quoted issuing one of thier classic misdirects: <br />
"The C.D.C. calls raw milk “one of the world’s most dangerous food products,” noting that improperly handled raw milk is responsible for almost three times as many hospitalizations as any other food-borne illness."

Most read this as "raw milk is a dangerous food product", when in fact it is "improper handling" that makes it dangerous. Therefore, improper handling of any food items makes it dangerous. Facts bear that out.

"And yet raw-milk activists are becoming increasingly vocal &mdash; and the supposed health benefits of raw milk are gaining increased support. To prevent the idea from spreading even further, Nyhan advises, advocates of pasteurization shouldn’t dwell on the misperceptions, lest they “inadvertently draw more attention to the counterclaim.” Instead, they should create messaging that self-consciously avoids any broader issues of identity, pointing out, for example, that pasteurized milk has kept children healthy for a hundred years."

When it comes to beliefs, psychologists are counseling corporations and agencies to omit facts. This head-in-the-sand approach is a main component of "divide and conquer" communications strategies.

The assumption that pasteurized milk keeps children healthy is contradicted by the fact that it is improper handling, not pasteurization, that makes any food dangerous. That assumption is derived from a belief that pasteurization works.

Courts are very useful for seperating fictions from facts. [Reading through this PDF]({{ site.url }}/pebo/pdfs/expert-testimony-0508.pdf) one finds that raw milk actually kills a whole host of bacteria, and pasteurized milk is actually a very good host for bad bacteria.

Beliefs that threaten someone's long held beliefs and or sense of well-being are the hardest to break, and the easiest to manipulate.

[beliefs]: http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/mariakonnikova/2014/05/why-do-people-persist-in-believing-things-that-just-arent-true.html
